DOC-1896 TW review of release notes (WIP) (#2053)
spatialos/UnrealGDK: CHANGELOG.md

### Breaking changes:
- Simulated player worker configurations now require a development authentication token and deployment flag instead of a login token and player identity token. See the Example Project for an example of how to set this up.
- We've removed singletons as a class specifier, so you need to remove this if you use it. To replicate the behavior of former singletons, ensure that your Actor is spawned once by a single server-side worker in your deployment.
- We've renamed `OnConnected` and `OnConnectionFailed` on `SpatialGameInstance` to `OnSpatialConnected` and `OnSpatialConnectionFailed`. They are now also blueprint-assignable.

### Features:
- We now support Unreal Engine `4.24.3`. You can find the `4.24.3` version of our engine fork [here](https://github.com/improbableio/UnrealEngine/tree/4.24-SpatialOSUnrealGDK-preview).

> - We've added a new variable: `QueuedOutgoingRPCWaitTime`. Outgoing RPCs are now dropped in the following three scenarios: more than `QueuedOutgoingRPCWaitTime` time has passed, the worker instance is never expected to become authoritative in zoning/offloading scenario, or the Actor is being destroyed.

Author: Could you elaborate on "never expected to become authoritative in zoning/offloading scenario"?

> - We've added a new variable: `QueuedOutgoingRPCWaitTime`. Outgoing RPCs are now dropped in the following three scenarios: more than `QueuedOutgoingRPCWaitTime` time has passed, the worker instance is never expected to become authoritative in zoning/offloading scenario, or the Actor is being destroyed.

Reviewer: It's in the process of being destroyed. So it's started being destroyed / has been destroyed. Both?

> - We've added a new variable: `QueuedOutgoingRPCWaitTime`. Outgoing RPCs are now dropped in the following three scenarios: more than `QueuedOutgoingRPCWaitTime` time has passed, the worker instance is never expected to become authoritative in zoning/offloading scenario, or the Actor is being destroyed.

Author: OK cool - I'll change to "is in the process of being destroyed" to be super clear.

- In local deployments of the Example Project, you can now launch simulated players in one click. Running `LaunchSimPlayerClient.bat` launches a single simulated player client. Running `Launch10SimPlayerClients.bat` launches ten simulated player clients.

> - We've added support for the UE4 Network Profiler to measure relative size of RPC and Actor replication data.

Author: FYI, after googling, I've changed UE4 Network Profile -> Network Profiler. Hope that's correct!

Reviewer: Yeah but this is their tool, not ours, we want to be specific this is the Unreal Engine Network Profiler.

Author: I've read back through this comment thread, and now I'm confused 😂 

Please could you clarify what we're talking about here, and what it's called?

> - We've added a `SpatialToggleMetricsDisplay` console command. You must enable `bEnableMetricsDisplay` in order for the display to be available. You must then must call `SpatialToggleMetricsDisplay` on each client that wants to view the metrics display.

Author: Does "console command" mean a CLI command, or something else (like something inside the Editor)?

Author: Also, could you clarify "that wants to view the metrics display"?

Reviewer: The client as in the UnrealClient, the instance of the game. The developer/player needs to call the console command on their client.

Author: Is it the developer or the player who does this, or could it be either? (The reason I'm asking is that in the release notes we're, talking to the developer - "You need to do X" - so we don't want to suddenly have "you" refer to the player.)

Is the following correct?

> You _[i.e. the developer]_ need to call `SpatialToggleMetricsDisplay` on each client that you want the metrics display to be visible for.

Reviewer: You refers to dev

> - We've added a `SpatialToggleMetricsDisplay` console command. You must enable `bEnableMetricsDisplay` in order for the display to be available. You must then must call `SpatialToggleMetricsDisplay` on each client that wants to view the metrics display.

Author: ```suggestion
- We've added a `SpatialToggleMetricsDisplay` console command. You must enable `bEnableMetricsDisplay` in order for the display to be available. You must then must call `SpatialToggleMetricsDisplay` on each client that you want the metrics display to be visible for.
 ```

- We've enabled compression in the Modular UDP networking stack.

> - We've switched off default rpc-packing. You can re-enable this in `SpatialGDKSettings.ini`.

Author: What does "default rpc-packing" mean? Google didn't help here :(

Reviewer: RPC would be better. Yeah this is only relevant if you know about the original feature in the first place.

> - We've switched off default rpc-packing. You can re-enable this in `SpatialGDKSettings.ini`.

Author: ```suggestion
- We've switched off default RPC-packing. You can re-enable this in `SpatialGDKSettings.ini`.
```

Author: Also - just realised that we have `SpatialGDKSettings`, `SpatialGDKSettings.ini`, and `GDKSettings` within this set of release notes. Can we make these consistent? If so, which is most appropriate?

Reviewer: SpatialGDKSettings[Class] == SpatialGDKSettings.ini [file] == Spatial OS Settings Tab [Editor]

> - Starting a local deployment now checks if the required runtime port is blocked and allows the user to kill it

Author: What does this mean? _**What**_ checks if the port is blocked, and what is the user allowed to kill? (The process using the port (if there is one))?

> - Starting a local deployment now checks if the required runtime port is blocked and allows the user to kill it

Author: @joshuahuburn could you confirm whether this should be "runtime" or "Runtime"?

> - Starting a local deployment now checks if the required runtime port is blocked and allows the user to kill it

Reviewer: `Runtime`

> - A configurable Actor component 'SpatialPingComponent' is now available for PlayerControllers to measure round-trip ping to their current authoritative server-worker instance. The latest ping value can be accessed raw through the component via 'GetPing()' or otherwise via the rolling average stored in 'PlayerState'.

Author: Does "round-trip ping" mean "round-trip time"? Google suggests either "round-trip time" or "ping time".

Author: Could you elaborate on:
> can be accessed raw through the component via 'GetPing()'

I guess GetPing() should be in back-ticks, and is something that you... call on the component? (Not sure of the vocabulary here.)

> - A configurable Actor component 'SpatialPingComponent' is now available for PlayerControllers to measure round-trip ping to their current authoritative server-worker instance. The latest ping value can be accessed raw through the component via 'GetPing()' or otherwise via the rolling average stored in 'PlayerState'.

Reviewer: Looks good

> - You can invoke the `GenerateSchema`, `GenerateSchemaAndSnapshots`, and `CookAndGenerateSchema` commandlets with the `-AdditionalSchemaCompilerArguments="..."` command line switch to output additional compiled schema formats. If you don't provide this switch, the output contains only the schema descriptor. This switch's value should be a subset of the arguments that you can pass to the schema compiler directly (for example `--bundle_out="path/to/bundle.sb"`). You can see a full list of possible values in the [schema compiler documentation](https://docs.improbable.io/reference/14.2/shared/schema/introduction#schema-compiler-cli-reference)

Author: Do we need to link to 14.2 specifically?

> - We've added the `AllowUnresolvedParameters` function flag that disables warnings for processing RPCs with unresolved parameters. To enable this flag, use Blueprints, or add a tag to the `UFUNCTION` macro.

Author: Could you clarify this? 

> that disables warnings for processing RPCs with unresolved parameters

I think it’s the “for” that is confusing.

> - There is now a warning if you launch a cloud deployment with the `manual_worker_connection_only` flag set to true.

Author: Should "true" be "`true`"?

> - We now support server travel for single server game worlds. Does not currently support zoning or off-loading.

Author: Is this correct? I thought we did support offloading?

- We've improved the workflow relating to schema generation issues and launching local builds. There is now a warning if you try to run a local deployment after a schema error.
- `DeploymentLauncher` can now launch a simulated player deployment independently from the target deployment.
Usage: `DeploymentLauncher createsim <project-name> <assembly-name> <target-deployment-name> <sim-deployment-name> <sim-deployment-json> <sim-deployment-region> <num-sim-players> <auto-connect>`

> - Added `HeartbeatTimeoutWithEditorSeconds` and use it if WITH_EDITOR is defined to prevent workers disconnecting when debugging while running in editor.

Author: What does “and use it” mean? The GDK uses it in the following circumstances? 

Also, “to prevent workers disconnecting when debugging while running in editor” - is this referring to PIE workers, or something else?

Reviewer: 1 - It's a variable name. Literally floating point value in a class
2 - In C++ you `defining` is actually a concept. You `define` a macro and then you can check if that macro is defined in later code with `if macro` e.g.:

```
#DEFINE WITH_EDITOR

#IF WITH_EDITOR
	do the thing...
#END IF WITH_EDITOR
```

Author: Thanks for your replies!

For 2, I still feel like my rewording makes more sense:

> `HeartbeatTimeoutWithEditorSeconds` is now true/now occurs/now does Z if Y is defined

instead of simply "added `HeartbeatTimeoutWithEditorSeconds`..."

What do you think?

Also, could you confirm the suggestion for the second sentence (see above)?

Reviewer: This is actually a SpatialGDKSettings field (float) now.
```
	/**
	* Same as HeartbeatTimeoutSeconds, but used if WITH_EDITOR is defined.
	*/
	UPROPERTY(EditAnywhere, config, Category = "Heartbeat", meta = (DisplayName = "Heartbeat Timeout With Editor (seconds)"))
	float HeartbeatTimeoutWithEditorSeconds;
```
It means that there is a setting  `HeartbeatTimeoutWithEditorSeconds` which is only used if `WITH_EDITOR` is defined, which is only on Editor builds.

> - We've added the `bAsyncLoadNewClassesOnEntityCheckout` setting to SpatialGDKSettings that allows loading new classes asynchronously when checking out entities. This is off by default.

Author: What’s “SpatialGDKSettings”?

Author: What does “checking out” mean here? We got rid of this term a while ago in the SpatialOS docs (or does it have a different meaning here?)

Author: > `SpatialGDKSettings` is the settings class where we store all of our settings. They are exposed to the user via the class or via the `SpatialOS Settings` window in the editor.

In that case, would it make more sense to talk about the SpatialOS Settings window? E.g. "You can now enable X from the SpatialOS Settings window" (where X is however `bAsyncLoadNewClassesOnEntityCheckout` appears in the window)? Or is there a reason why we can't/shouldn't do this?

> Checking out means checking out, when the runtime sends you an entity you are "checking it out", how can we get rid of this term? We use it everywhere.

Laura and I had a long discussion about this term with Sean last year, when we overhauled the docs on authority and interest (in the current Overview section). We realised that it wasn't clear in our docs what "check out" meant, in relation to interest, and that it could be a confusing term as it has lots of other meanings (e.g. checking out a branch on GitHub, checking something out as in "looking at something").

After much discussion, we realised that we didn't need to talk about "checking out" components, and could instead talk about a worker instance "receiving updates about" components (or, in non-GDK SpatialOS terms, having _active read access_ to components). "Receive updates about" is clear - it spells out what's actually happening - whereas "checks out" doesn't really tell you what's going on.

Similarly, we replaced "checkout radius" with "interest radius" or "area of interest". It's not the radius within which a worker instance checks out (receives updates about) components, because _whether_ it receives updates about components in this radius depends on other factors (read access permission/component filters).

Sean did mention that there was a nuance about "checking out" - possibly something to do with the initial update received about a component - but I think we decided that we didn't need to make this distinction.

(I know it's in the code, so we're clearly not going to be able to get rid of it completely.)

Reviewer: 1- I'm not so sure about that. I prefer mentioning the class itself rather than the name of the editor tab.
2- Seems like I've lost this one. I agree that checking out refers to the first time you see an entity/component and not just the process of being able to read that entity/component data. So technically they are different.

> - We've added the `bAsyncLoadNewClassesOnEntityCheckout` setting to SpatialGDKSettings that allows loading new classes asynchronously when checking out entities. This is off by default.

Author: ```suggestion
- We've added the `bAsyncLoadNewClassesOnEntityCheckout` setting to `SpatialGDKSettings`. This allows worker instances to load new classes asynchronously when they are receiving the initial updates about an entity. It is off by default.
```

@joshuahuburn please check I've got this right!

- We've added `IndexYFromSchema` functions for the `Coordinates`, `WorkerRequirementSet`, `FRotator`, and `FVector` classes. We've remapped the `GetYFromSchema` functions for the same classes to invoke `IndexYFromSchema` internally, in line with other implementations of the pattern.

> - Clients now validate schema against the server, and log a warning if they do not match.

Author: Could you elaborate on this a bit? I'm guessing that there's schema on the client and on the server, and they should match?

> - Clients now validate schema against the server, and log a warning if they do not match.

Author: ```suggestion
- Clients now validate their schema files against the schema files on the server, and log a warning if the files do not match.
```

> - Entries in the schema database are now sorted to improve efficiency when searching for assets in the Unreal Editor.

Author: ```suggestion
- Entries in the schema database are now sorted to improve efficiency when searching for assets in the Unreal Editor. (DW-Sebastien)
```
Just adding (DW-Sebastien) back in. (I removed it because I thought it might be an oversight, but then I saw the name under "external contributors" and figured that it should probably stay!)

> - Batch Spatial Position Updates now defaults to false.

Author: I couldn’t find this in the docs, and I don’t know what sort of thing it is (and therefore how to format/capitalise it).

Author: Same question as above - should we mention that this is in the SpatialOS Settings window? (Also, can you confirm that the setting is phrased exactly like that - `Batch Spatial Position Updates`?)

Reviewer: I prefer the settings class mention

Author: OK, that's fine.

Can you confirm that the setting is phrased exactly like that - Batch Spatial Position Updates?

Also, see my earlier comment about `GDKSettings` vs `SpatialGDKSettings` vs `SpatialGDKSettings.ini`.

Reviewer: `BatchSpatialPositionUpdates`
`SpatialGDKSettings`

> - Batch Spatial Position Updates now defaults to false.

Author: ```suggestion
- `BatchSpatialPositionUpdates` in `SpatialGDKSettings` now defaults to false.
```

- We've introduced the feature flag `bEnableResultTypes` (default true). This configures interest queries to include only the set of components required for the queries to run. Depending on your game, this might save bandwidth.
- If you set the `bEnableResultTypes` flag to `true`, this disables dynamic interest overrides.
- We've moved the development authentication settings from the Runtime Settings panel to the Editor Settings panel.
- We've added the option to use the development authentication flow with the command line.
- We've added a button to generate a development authentication token inside the Unreal Editor. To use it, navigate to **Edit** > **Project Setting** > **SpatialOS GDK for Unreal** > **Editor Settings** > **Cloud Connection**.
- We've added a new section where you can configure the launch arguments for running a client on a mobile device. To use it, navigate to **Edit** > **Project Setting** > **SpatialOS GDK for Unreal** > **Editor Settings** > **Mobile**.
- You can now choose which Runtime version to use when you launch a local or cloud deployment.

> - With the `--OverrideResultTypes` flag flipped, servers will no longer check out server RPC components on actors they do not own. This should give a bandwidth saving to server workers in offloaded and zoned games.

Author: Does “flipped” mean on/off? true/false? What is the default?

Author: Are we OK to mention zoning here?

Author: >Flipped means true, that's bad wording though.

Do you mean that "flipped" is bad wording, or "true" is?

Reviewer: Using `flipped` is bad wording. Stating `true` is better.

> - With the `--OverrideResultTypes` flag flipped, servers will no longer check out server RPC components on actors they do not own. This should give a bandwidth saving to server workers in offloaded and zoned games.

Author: ```suggestion
- If you set the `--OverrideResultTypes` flag to `true`, server-worker instances no longer receive updates about server RPC components on Actors that they do not own. This should decrease bandwidth for server-worker instances in offloaded and zoned games.
```

- The `InstallGDK` scripts now `git clone` the correct version of the `UnrealGDK` and `UnrealGDKExampleProject` for the `UnrealEngine` branch that you have checked out. They read `UnrealGDKVersion.txt` and `UnrealGDKExampleProjectVersion.txt` to determine what the correct branches are.
- We've removed the `bEnableServerQBI` property and the `--OverrideServerInterest` flag.
- We've added custom warning timeouts for each RPC failure condition.

> - `SpatialPingComponent` can now also report average ping measurements over a specified number of recent pings. You can specify the number of measurements recorded in `PingMeasurementsWindowSize` and get the measurement data by calling `GetAverageData`. There is also a delegate `OnRecordPing` that will be broadcast whenever a new ping measurement is recorded.

Author: Do we expect people just to look in the code for these things?

Author: > You can specify the number of measurements recorded in PingMeasurementsWindowSize

Does this mean “you can specify how many measurements you want to be recorded”? or “how many measurements have been recorded”?

Author: Does “delegate” have a special meaning here that people will understand?

> - `SpatialPingComponent` can now also report average ping measurements over a specified number of recent pings. You can specify the number of measurements recorded in `PingMeasurementsWindowSize` and get the measurement data by calling `GetAverageData`. There is also a delegate `OnRecordPing` that will be broadcast whenever a new ping measurement is recorded.

Author: ```suggestion
- `SpatialPingComponent` can now also report average ping measurements over a specified number of recent pings. You can use `PingMeasurementsWindowSize` to specify how many measurements you want to record, and call `GetAverageData` to get the measurement data. There is also a delegate `OnRecordPing` that is broadcast whenever a new ping measurement is recorded.
```

> - The Spatial Output Log window now displays deployment startup errors.

Author: Can you confirm what this window’s heading/label is? Or is it actually “Spatial Output Log”?

> - We've added `bEnableClientQueriesOnServer` (default false) which makes the same queries on the server as it makes on clients, if the unreal load balancer is enabled. Enable this to avoid a situation in which clients receive updates about entities that the server doesn't receive updates about (if the server's interest query is configured incorrectly).

Author: I guess this means the GDK for Unreal load balancer?

> - We've added `bEnableClientQueriesOnServer` (default false) which makes the same queries on the server as it makes on clients, if the unreal load balancer is enabled. Enable this to avoid a situation in which clients receive updates about entities that the server doesn't receive updates about (if the server's interest query is configured incorrectly).

Author: ```suggestion
- We've added `bEnableClientQueriesOnServer` (default false) which makes the same queries on the server as it makes on clients, if the GDK for Unreal's load balancer is enabled. Enable `bEnableClientQueriesOnServer` to avoid a situation in which clients receive updates about entities that the server doesn't receive updates about (which happens if the server's interest query is configured incorrectly).
```

Rephrased slightly - please check that the second sentence is accurate. (Previously it was: Enable this to avoid clients seeing entities the server does not if the server's interest query has not been configured correctly.)

Reviewer: Looks good

> - We've added log warning when `AddPendingRPC` fails due to `ControllerChannelNotListening`.

Author: What does “added log warning” mean?

> - We've added log warning when `AddPendingRPC` fails due to `ControllerChannelNotListening`.

Author: ```suggestion
- We now log a warning when `AddPendingRPC` fails due to `ControllerChannelNotListening`.
```

- When offloading is enabled, Actors have local authority (`ROLE_Authority`) on servers for longer periods of time, to allow more native Unreal functionality to work without problems.
- When offloading is enabled, if you try to spawn Actors on a server that will not be the Actor Group owner for them, we now log an error and delete the Actor.
- The GDK now uses SpatialOS Runtime version 14.5.1 by default.

> - We've renamed the configuration setting `bPreventAutoConnectWithLocator` to `bPreventClientCloudDeploymentAutoConnect` and moved it to GDK Settings. If using this feature please update enable the setting in GDK Settings.

Author: What does the user have to do? I guess there's something called "GDK Settings" which has a setting labelled `bPreventClientCloudDeploymentAutoConnect`, which people should enable?

Author: OK, thanks. I guess that makes it harder to know whether to talk about `GDKSettings` or the SpatialOS Settings window. (The same applies for the other release notes that mention `GDKSettings`.) Unless we say something like:

> moved it to `GDKSettings` (the SpatialOS Settings window).

?

Also:

>If using this feature please update enable the setting in GDK Settings.

I guess this is a typo and should just say "enable" rather than "update enable", but wanted to check (in case it's actually meant to say "update"!).

Reviewer: 1- Same as others, I prefer GDKSettings
2- Yup should just be `enable`

> - We've renamed the configuration setting `bPreventAutoConnectWithLocator` to `bPreventClientCloudDeploymentAutoConnect` and moved it to GDK Settings. If using this feature please update enable the setting in GDK Settings.

Author: ```suggestion
- We've renamed the configuration setting `bPreventAutoConnectWithLocator` to `bPreventClientCloudDeploymentAutoConnect` and moved it to `GDKSettings`. To use this feature, enable the setting in `GDKSettings`.
```

> - We've renamed the configuration setting `bPreventAutoConnectWithLocator` to `bPreventClientCloudDeploymentAutoConnect` and moved it to `GDKSettings`. To use this feature, enable the setting in `GDKSettings`.

Author: ```suggestion
- We've renamed the configuration setting `bPreventAutoConnectWithLocator` to `bPreventClientCloudDeploymentAutoConnect` and moved it to `SpatialGDKSettings`. To use this feature, enable the setting in `SpatialGDKSettings`.
```

- We've made `USpatialMetrics::WorkerMetricsRecieved` static.
- You can now connect to a local deployment by selecting "Connect to a local deployment" and specifying the local IP address of your computer in the Launch drop-down menu.
- We've enabled RPC ring buffers by default, and we'll remove the legacy RPC mode in a future release.
- We've removed the `bPackRPCs` property and the the `--OverrideRPCPacking` flag.
- We've added `OnClientOwnershipGained` and `OnClientOwnershipLost` events on Actors and Actor Components. These events trigger when an Actor is added to or removed from the ownership hierarchy of a client's PlayerController.
- You can now generate valid schema for classes that start with a leading digit. The generated schema class are prefixed with `ZZ` internally.
- The GDK now automatically replicates handover properties when this is required for load balancing. `bEnableHandover` is off by default.

> - We've added `OnSpatialPlayerSpawnFailed` delegate to `SpatialGameInstance`. This is helpful if you established a successful connection but the server-worker instance crashed.

Author: "delegate” again (I don’t know what this means, but might just be my lack of knowledge)

> - We've added `OnSpatialPlayerSpawnFailed` delegate to `SpatialGameInstance`. This is helpful if you established a successful connection but the server-worker instance crashed.

Author: ```suggestion
- We've added the `OnSpatialPlayerSpawnFailed` delegate to `SpatialGameInstance`. This is helpful if you established a successful connection but the server-worker instance crashed.
```

Not sure if "the" or "an" makes more sense here.

Reviewer: Nah remove, this implies it's an abstract entity that can be created beforehand. Instead it's something brand new that has been defined.

- We've added `bWorkerFlushAfterOutgoingNetworkOp` (default false) which publishes changes to the GDK worker queue after RPCs and property replication, to allow for lower latencies. You can use this in conjunction with `bRunSpatialWorkerConnectionOnGameThread` to get the lowest available latency at a trade-off with bandwidth.

## Bug fixes:
- Queued RPCs no longer spam logs when an entity is deleted.
- We now take the `OverrideSpatialNetworking` command line argument into account as early as possible (previously, `LocalDeploymentManager` queried `bSpatialNetworking` before the command line was parsed).
- Servers now maintain interest in `AlwaysRelevant` Actors.
- `GetActorSpatialPosition` now returns the last spectator sync location while the player is spectating.
- The default cloud launch configuration is now empty.
- We've fixed a crash that happened when the GDK attempted to read schema from an unloaded class.
- We now properly handle (and eventually resolve) unresolved object references in replicated arrays of structs.
- We've fixed a tombstone-related assert that could fire and bring down the editor.

> - If an Actor that is placed in the level with `bNetLoadOnClient=false` goes out of view, it is now reloaded if it comes back into view.

Author: What do we mean by going out of view/coming back into view? Can we be more precise?

Author: I thought this might be what it was referring to. Just checked out terminology doc and we do have "worker instance's view" in there, so I think it's OK! (I should have checked earlier - I was thinking maybe we were trying to avoid "view".)

> - If an Actor that is placed in the level with `bNetLoadOnClient=false` goes out of view, it is now reloaded if it comes back into view.

Author: ```suggestion
- If an Actor that is placed in the level with `bNetLoadOnClient=false` goes out of a worker instance's view, it is now reloaded if it comes back into view.
```

- We've fixed a crash in `SpatialDebugger` that was caused by the dereference of an invalid weak pointer.
- We've fixed a connection error that occurred when using `spatial cloud connect external`.
- The command line argument `receptionistHost <URL>` no longer overrides connections to `127.0.0.1`.

> - The Receptionist will now be used for appropriate URLs after connecting to a locator URL.

Author: Could you elaborate on what this means?

> - The Receptionist will now be used for appropriate URLs after connecting to a locator URL.

Author: ```suggestion
- If you connect a worker instance to a deployment using the Locator, and you're using a URL that requires the Receptionist, this now works correctly.
```

Not sure if I've got this right. In the GDK docs, it sounds like Receptionist and Locator are alternative options for connecting to a deployment, that you use in different situations, but from what I've learnt working on the SDKs, if you connect using the Locator, you _then_ go through the Receptionist. Is that what we're talking about here?

Reviewer: Nah they are separate for our purposes.

Author: OK - so is my suggestion accurate or not?

- You can now access the worker flags via `USpatialStatics::GetWorkerFlag` instead of `USpatialWorkerFlags::GetWorkerFlag`.

> - We've fixed a crash in `SpatialDebugger` when GDK-space load balancing is disabled.

Author: Will people know what "GDK-space load balancing" means? It’s not in the docs

> - We've fixed a crash in `SpatialDebugger` when GDK-space load balancing is disabled.

Author: ```suggestion
- We've fixed a crash in `SpatialDebugger` that occurs when GDK-space load balancing is disabled.
```

- The schema database no longer fails to load previous saved state when working in the Unreal Editor.
- If you attempt to launch a cloud deployment, this now runs the `spatial auth` process as required. Previously the deployment would simply fail.
- We've made a minor spelling fix to the connection log message.

> - Added %s token to debug strings in GlobalStateManager to display actor class name in log.

Author: I’m afraid I have literally no idea what this one means 🤯

Reviewer: @m-samiec Fix this please xD

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Debug strings in GlobalStateManager now display actor class name in log.
```

- The server no longer crashes when received RPCs are processed recursively.

> - Fix to serialize SoftObjectPointers when they are not resolved yet.

Author: I don’t know what this release note (or the two below) are trying to convey. E.g. does this one mean that we now serialize SoftObjectPointers when they are not yet resolved (whereas we didn’t before)? Or that we’ve done this for a while, but we’ve just made a fix that relates to how we do this?

> - Fix to serialize SoftObjectPointers when they are not resolved yet.

Author: ```suggestion
- The GDK no longer crashes when `SoftObjectPointers` are not yet resolved, but instead serializes them as expected after they are resolved.
```

Attempted reword - LMK if it's accurate. In particular I'm not sure _what_ no longer crashes - the server, the GDK, or something else?

Reviewer: Looks good.

> - Fix to handle replicated properties depending on asynchronously loaded packages.

Author: See above

Reviewer: Yeah this needs work.
`Fixed an issue when replicating a property for a class which is part of an asynchronously loaded package and the package has not finished loading.`

> - Fix to handle replicated properties depending on asynchronously loaded packages.

Author: ```suggestion
- We've fixed an issue that occurred when replicating a property for a class that was part of an asynchronously-loaded package, when the package had not finished loading.
```

> - Fix to component interest constraints constructed from schema.

Author: See above

Reviewer: @ImprobableNic Could you make this more verbose please.

Reviewer: @ImprobableNic

> - Debug strings in GlobalStateManager now display actor class name in log.

Author: ```suggestion
- The debug strings in `GlobalStateManager` now display the Actor class name in log files.
```
Is my update accurate? (Your change was an improvement, but I still didn't get what "now display actor class name in log" meant.)

- The GDK now tracks properties that contain references to replicated Actors, so that it can resolve them again if the Actor that they reference moves out of and back into relevance.
- PIE sessions no longer occasionally fail to start due to missing schema for the `SpatialDebugger` Blueprint.
- We've fixed an issue where a newly-created subobject had empty state when `RepNotify` was called for a property pointing to that subobject.
- We've fixed an issue where deleted, initially dormant startup Actors would still be present on other worker instances.
- We now force-activate the RPC ring buffer when load balancing is enabled, to allow RPC handover when authority changes.
- We've fixed a race condition where a client that was leaving the deployment could leave its Actor behind on the server, to be cleaned up after a long timeout.

> - We've fixed a crash that was caused by state persisting across a transition from one deployment to another in `SpatialGameInstance`.

Author: I don’t know how “in SpatialGameInstance” relates to the rest of the sentence.

Reviewer: `SpatialGameInstance` is the class which owns the state which was being persisted.

Author: Thanks - I think we can make that clearer just by reordering.

> - We've fixed a crash that was caused by state persisting across a transition from one deployment to another in `SpatialGameInstance`.

Author: ```suggestion
- We've fixed a crash that was caused by state in `SpatialGameInstance` persisting across a transition from one deployment to another.
```

- The GDK no longer crashes when you start and stop PIE clients multiple times.
- The GDK no longer crashes when shadow data is uninitialized when resolving unresolved objects.

> - Fixed sending component RPCs on a recently created actor.

Author: As above - I don't know what this means precisely

Reviewer: There was a bug where sending component RPCs on an actor which was just created will fail. This fix prevents that failure.

> - Fixed sending component RPCs on a recently created actor.

Author: ```suggestion
- You can now send RPCs on recently-created Actors (previously this failed). 
```

- Load-balanced cloud deployments no longer fail to start while under heavy load.
- We now avoid using packages that are still being processed in the async loading thread.
- Running GDK setup scripts no longer occasionally fails to unzip dependencies.

### Internal:
Features listed in this section are not ready to use. However, in the spirit of open development, we record every change that we make to the GDK.

- We've enabled the SpatialOS toolbar for MacOS.
- We've added support for Android.

> - `SpatialDebugger` worker regions are now cuboids rather than planes, and can have their `WorkerRegionVerticalScale` adjusted via a setting in the `SpatialDebugger`.

Author: This doesn’t seem to be in the docs anywhere. Is it user-facing? [EDIT: Ernie has confirmed that this is internal only, so might be OK.]

Reviewer: We don't advertise this feature atm. Not sure if there are docs intended.

Reviewer: @m-samiec @cmsmithio ?

Reviewer 2: Yeah this looks fine to me.

Author: OK, since this is an internal one, I don't think we need to worry too much.

- We've added an `AuthorityIntent` component, a `VirtualWorkerTranslation` component, and a partial framework. We'll use these in the future to control load balancing.

> - Load balancing strategies and locking strategies can be set per-level using `SpatialWorldSettings`.

Author: I couldn’t find “SpatialWorldSettings” in the docs. Is there definitely something with this name? [EDIT: Ernie has confirmed that this is internal only, so it might be OK.]

Reviewer: `SpatialWorldSettings` is a class in the GDK that users can inherit from. Developer concept.

> - Enabling the GDK for Unreal load balancer now creates a single query per server-worker instance, depending on the defined load balancing strategy.

Author: How do you do this? Do people know what this is? [EDIT: Ernie has confirmed that this is internal only, so probably fine.]

Reviewer: @jennifer-at-improbable-io would you like to have a go at how to tell users to 'enable' load balancing?

Reviewer: @jennifer-at-improbable-io

Reviewer 3: I would remove this particular line, since we haven't documented that there was a different query before this change. However, we may want a line in here that load balancing will show up in the Runtime Settings.

Maybe "Added a new Runtime Settings flag to enable the Unreal GDK load balancing. This is a feature in development which is not yet ready for general use.".

Reviewer 3: That might actually be worthwhile to add to the public section of the release notes, since that flag will be visible in the settings to anyone.

> - We've extracted the logic responsible for taking an Actor and generating the array of SpatialOS components that represents it as an entity in SpatialOS. This logic is now in `EntityFactory`.

Author: I've rephrased this one, but am not sure if it still makes sense...

Reviewer: What was the original :p?

Reviewer: Looks fine

> - Enabling the GDK for Unreal load balancer now creates a single query per server-worker instance, depending on the defined load balancing strategy.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Added a new Runtime Settings flag to enable the Unreal GDK load balancing. This is a feature in development which is not yet ready for general use. Enabling the GDK for Unreal load balancer now creates a single query per server-worker instance, depending on the defined load balancing strategy.
```

- We've removed singletons as a class specifier, so you need to remove this if you use it. To replicate the behavior of former singletons, ensure that your Actor is spawned once by a single server-side worker in your deployment.
- We've renamed `OnConnected` and `OnConnectionFailed` on `SpatialGameInstance` to `OnSpatialConnected` and `OnSpatialConnectionFailed`. They are now also blueprint-assignable.

### Features:
- Unreal Engine `4.24.3` is now supported. You can find the `4.24.3` version of our engine fork [here](https://github.com/improbableio/UnrealEngine/tree/4.24-SpatialOSUnrealGDK-preview).
- Added a new variable `QueuedOutgoingRPCWaitTime`. Outgoing RPCs will now be dropped if: more than `QueuedOutgoingRPCWaitTime` time has passed; the worker is never expected to become authoritative in zoning/offloading scenario; the Actor is being destroyed.
- In local deployments of the Example Project you can now launch Simulated Players in one click. Running `LaunchSimPlayerClient.bat` will launch a single Simulated Player client. Running `Launch10SimPlayerClients.bat` will launch 10.

> - Added an AuthorityIntent component to be used in the future for UnrealGDK code to control loadbalancing.

Reviewer: Why was this deleted

Reviewer: Right it was moved.

- Added support for the UE4 Network Profile to measure relative size of RPC and Actor replication data.
- Added a VirtualWorkerTranslation component to be used in future UnrealGDK loadbalancing.

> - Added partial framework for use in future UnrealGDK controlled loadbalancing.

Reviewer: Did this become? - We've added a new Runtime Settings flag to enable the GDK for Unreal load balancer. This is a feature that is in development and not yet ready for general use. Enabling the GDK for Unreal load balancer now creates a single query per server-worker instance, depending on the defined load balancing strategy.

Author: Ah, no - I combined this with the one above, plus another one, to make:

>We've added an `AuthorityIntent` component, a `VirtualWorkerTranslation` component, and a partial framework. We'll use these in the future to control load balancing.

- We've introduced the feature flag `bEnableResultTypes` (default true). This configures interest queries to include only the set of components required for the queries to run. Depending on your game, this might save bandwidth.
- If you set the `bEnableResultTypes` flag to `true`, this disables dynamic interest overrides.
- We've moved the development authentication settings from the Runtime Settings panel to the Editor Settings panel.
- We've added the option to use the development authentication flow with the command line.
- We've added a button to generate a development authentication token inside the Unreal Editor. To use it, navigate to **Edit** > **Project Setting** > **SpatialOS GDK for Unreal** > **Editor Settings** > **Cloud Connection**.
- We've added a new section where you can configure the launch arguments for running a client on a mobile device. To use it, navigate to **Edit** > **Project Setting** > **SpatialOS GDK for Unreal** > **Editor Settings** > **Mobile**.

> - You can now choose which Runtime version to use when you launch a local or cloud deployment.

Reviewer: Where did the mention of `Added settings` go here?

Author: Ah I see - sorry, I read the original as just meaning "we've added functionality that lets you choose..."

> - You can now choose which Runtime version to use when you launch a local or cloud deployment.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- You can now choose which Runtime version to use when you launch a local or cloud deployment via the Spatial Runtime Settings.
```

Author: I've updated your suggestion to make it clear that you're choosing the Runtime version in the Runtime Settings, rather than launching a deployment via the Runtime Settings. Also removed "Spatial".

- When offloading is enabled, if you try to spawn Actors on a server that will not be the Actor Group owner for them, we now log an error and delete the Actor.
- The GDK now uses SpatialOS Runtime version 14.5.1 by default.
- We've renamed the configuration setting `bPreventAutoConnectWithLocator` to `bPreventClientCloudDeploymentAutoConnect` and moved it to `SpatialGDKSettings`. To use this feature, enable the setting in `SpatialGDKSettings`.
- We've made `USpatialMetrics::WorkerMetricsRecieved` static.
- You can now connect to a local deployment by selecting "Connect to a local deployment" and specifying the local IP address of your computer in the Launch drop-down menu.
- We've enabled RPC ring buffers by default, and we'll remove the legacy RPC mode in a future release.
- We've removed the `bPackRPCs` property and the the `--OverrideRPCPacking` flag.
- We've added `OnClientOwnershipGained` and `OnClientOwnershipLost` events on Actors and Actor Components. These events trigger when an Actor is added to or removed from the ownership hierarchy of a client's PlayerController.

> - You can now generate valid schema for classes that start with a leading digit. The generated schema class are prefixed with `ZZ` internally.

Reviewer: All features below this are in master but not in 0.9.0-rc

- The GDK now automatically replicates handover properties when this is required for load balancing. `bEnableHandover` is off by default.
- We've added `OnSpatialPlayerSpawnFailed` delegate to `SpatialGameInstance`. This is helpful if you established a successful connection but the server-worker instance crashed.
- The GDK now uses SpatialOS 14.6.1.
- You can now disable outgoing RPC queue timeouts by setting `QueuedOutgoingRPCWaitTime` to 0.0f.
- We've added `bWorkerFlushAfterOutgoingNetworkOp` (default false) which publishes changes to the GDK worker queue after RPCs and property replication, to allow for lower latencies. You can use this in conjunction with `bRunSpatialWorkerConnectionOnGameThread` to get the lowest available latency at a trade-off with bandwidth.
- You can now edit the project name field in the Cloud Deployment window.
- You now define worker types in the Runtime Settings.

> - Local deployments now use the map's load balancing strategy to get the launch configuration settings. The launch configuration file is saved per-map in the Intermediate/Improbable folder.

Author: ```suggestion
- Local deployments now use the map's load balancing strategy to get the launch configuration settings. The launch configuration file is saved per-map in the `Intermediate/Improbable` folder.
```

> - Local deployments now use the map's load balancing strategy to get the launch configuration settings. The launch configuration file is saved per-map in the `Intermediate/Improbable` folder.

Author: Is "the map's LB strategy" the right way of putting it? As opposed to "the worker instance's LB strategy" or something else?

Reviewer 3: Yes, Load balancing strategies are per map.

- The GDK now tracks properties that contain references to replicated Actors, so that it can resolve them again if the Actor that they reference moves out of and back into relevance.
- PIE sessions no longer occasionally fail to start due to missing schema for the `SpatialDebugger` Blueprint.
- We've fixed an issue where a newly-created subobject had empty state when `RepNotify` was called for a property pointing to that subobject.
- We've fixed an issue where deleted, initially dormant startup Actors would still be present on other worker instances.
- We now force-activate the RPC ring buffer when load balancing is enabled, to allow RPC handover when authority changes.
- We've fixed a race condition where a client that was leaving the deployment could leave its Actor behind on the server, to be cleaned up after a long timeout.
- We've fixed a crash that was caused by state in `SpatialGameInstance` persisting across a transition from one deployment to another.
- The GDK no longer crashes when you start and stop PIE clients multiple times.
- The GDK no longer crashes when shadow data is uninitialized when resolving unresolved objects.

> - You can now send RPCs on recently-created Actors (previously this failed). 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- We've fixed an occasional issue when sending component RPCs on a recently created actor.
```

Author: What's the reason for this change?
